In this video we're going to be
using the Dissolve tool, but
first of all, let's just clean
up our layers list again.
We can get rid of the MPA no
Take Zone layer and also the
Spawning Clips layer.
And so in this video we're going
to be using the Dissolve tool.
So the dissolve tool can
dissolve the boundaries between
features within a layer, and it
can also dissolve the boundaries
based on the attributes of those
features.
So within our merge data set, we
can see that where the spawning
grounds and the current no take
MPA zone overlap, we've got some
boundaries or some lines here.
We don't want this as we want it
to all be merged together so
that we can see where the no
take zone will be during the
spawning months.
So let's open up the dissolve
tool.
We'll go into the processing
toolbox, type in Dissolve and
it's this tool here under vector
geometry, the dissolve tool.
So we'll open this up and now
our input layer is what layer
we're dissolving.
And so that's the no take
spawning season layer, our
merged layer.
So we'll choose this in the drop
down box and then the next thing
we have is dissolve fields.
So using when you use the
dissolve tool, you can also set
dissolve fields and these are
the columns within a layers
table that tell the tool where
to dissolve the boundaries.
It's not relevant for our layer
because we just want to dissolve
all the boundaries or any
boundary that's in between the
no take zone and the spawning
grounds.
But if you had a layer for
example, that was a continent
and you had the boundaries for
the countries, but also the
boundaries for the regions
within the countries, and you
didn't want these regional
boundaries anymore, then within
the dissolve field you could
choose the column within the
table that tells you what
country each region is in.
And so this would tell the tool
to dissolve the regional
boundaries but keep the country
boundaries within the continent.
But we can leave this blank as
we can just dissolve any
boundary that was that's within
our layer.
And then the next thing or the
last thing we need to do is
choose where we're going to save
the new layer to and what we're
going to name it.
So we're going to click on the
three dots next to the dissolved
section here and we're going to
choose Save to Geo package and
make sure we go into that Geo
package that we've set up and
now we can choose a name for our
new layer.
So we'll name it New no Take,
click OK and then run the tool.
And now we've got our new layer.
So if we toggle off the original
layer, we can see that in our
new layer the boundaries between
the spawning grounds and the
current MPA no take zone have
been dissolved and so that's how
to run a dissolve tool in QGIS.
So just remember to hit save to
save your changes.